README.md, before:

# Ansible playbooks for various OpenCraft servers

This repository contains OpenCraft playbooks to deploy many different types of servers.

## How to deploy a Dalite NG server

### Create an OpenStack environment

1. Create a root volume that has 40GB size. It should be based on Ubuntu 14.04 image.
   We suggest you use vanilla image from [ubuntu page](https://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/).
   First you need to upload images to your project, to do this follow
   [documentation here](https://github.com/open-craft/doc/blob/master/howto-upload-images-to-openstack.md).
   When images are uploaded you'll need to: `Volumes` -> `Create Volume` -> `Volume Source` choose `Image` -> `Select image`.

1. Create `vps-ssd-3` instance from this volume: (`Boot Source` -> `Volume` -> `Your root volume`).

1. Create an additional blank volume for storing log and database dumps; we recommend 100GB. Attach it to the instance you created, and make a note of the device identifier it gets assigned (for example, `/dev/vdb` or `/dev/vdc`).

1. Make a note of the instance's SSH private key; either save it to your SSH config for that host's IP address, or save it in an id_rsa file with permissions set to 600.

1. SSH to the new instance using its private key; verify the public key fingerprint against the OpenStack log page before proceeding.

1. Create an Ansible `hosts` file containing (for example):

        [dalite]
        dalite.harvardx.harvard.edu ansible_host=xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx

   Please note that while host name is largely irrelevant, this host must be in dalite group.

### Obtain database credentials

1. Create a `private-extra-vars.yml` file and store it somewhere safe, all configuration should be stored in that file.
1. Obtain database credentials
1. Save host to `MYSQL_DALITE_HOST`
1. Save database to: `MYSQL_DALITE_DATABASE`
1. Save credentials to: `MYSQL_DALITE_PASSWORD`, `MYSQL_DALITE_USER`
1. Save the device ID of the blank volume you attached for log and database dumps to `DALITE_LOG_DOWNLOAD_VOLUME_DEVICE_ID`.

### Generate secrets

1. Generate tarsnap keys, these keys shouldn't end up on dalite-ng server, but instead store them somewhere safe.
    1. Generate key for swift container backup
    1. Generate key for dalite logrotate backup
1. Generate tarsnap read write keys from the master key, see [tarsnap-keymngmt](http://www.tarsnap.com/man-tarsnap-keymgmt.1.html),
1. Go to dead man's snitch at https://deadmanssnitch.com/. And generate three snitches, save them under:
    1. `DALITE_LOG_TARSNAP_SNITCH` --- this will monitor saving logs,
       this snich should have daily interval
    1. `SANITY_CHECK_SNITCH`  --- this will monitor sanity check,
       this snitch should have 15 minute interval
    1. `BACKUP_SWIFT_SNITCH`  --- this will monitor backup of swift container
       this snitch should have hourly interval
1. Generate various dailte secrets;
   1. `DALITE_SECRET_KEY` --- a random string
   1. `DALITE_LTI_CLIENT_SECRET` --- a random string
   1. `DALITE_PASSWORD_GENERATOR_NONCE` --- a random string
   1. `DALITE_LOG_DOWNLOAD_PASSWORD` --- a crypt compatible [encrypted password](http://linuxcommand.org/man_pages/mkpasswd1.html)
1. Obtain HTTPS certificate for dalite domain, and store it like that:

   ```yml

       DALITE_SSL_KEY: |
          -----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----
          data
          -----END PRIVATE KEY-----

       DALITE_SSL_CERT: |
          -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
           data
          -----END CERTIFICATE-----
          -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
           Parent certificate
          -----END CERTIFICATE-----

   ```

1. Obtain OpenStack credentials to a project where media uploads will be stored, these should go to `DALITE_ENV`,
   like this:

        DALITE_ENV:
          DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE: 'dalite.settings'
          OS_AUTH_URL: '...'
          OS_TENANT_ID: '...'
          OS_TENANT_NAME: '...'
          OS_USERNAME: '...'
          OS_PASSWORD: '...'
          OS_REGION_NAME: '...'

   and to: `BACKUP_SWIFT_RC` (yes you need to copy the same credentials in two ways, but ansible has no sensible
   "copy variables" facility:

    BACKUP_SWIFT_RC: |

      export OS_AUTH_URL='....'
      export OS_TENANT_ID='...'
      export OS_TENANT_NAME='...'
      export OS_USERNAME='...'
      export OS_PASSWORD='..'
      export OS_REGION_NAME='..'

### Perform deployment

If the device identifier your external log volume was assigned is not /dev/vdc (the default we look for), then you'll need to pass it into the command.

    ansible-galaxy install -r requirements.yml -f
    ansible-playbook deploy-all.yml -u ubuntu --extra-vars @private-extra-vars.yml --limit dalite

If you saved the instance's private SSH key to a separate file, rather than into your SSH configuration, you'll need to pass the `--private-key` argument to `ansible-playbook`, specifying the file where the private key can be found.

## How to deploy a load-balancing server

### Create an OpenStack instance

1. Create an OpenStack "vps-ssd-1" instance from a vanilla Ubuntu 16.04 (xenial)
   image.

1. Add the IP address and host name of the new instance to the Ansible inventory
   in the file `hosts` (create it if necessary):

        [load-balancer]
        load-balancer.host.name ansible_host=xx.xx.xx.xx

### Generate secrets for the new server

1. Go to https://deadmanssnitch.com/ and create two snitches, one for the
   backups and one for the sanity checks.  Add them to a file
   `host_vars/<hostname>/vars.yml`:

        TARSNAP_BACKUP_SNITCH: https://nosnch.in/<backup-snitch>
        SANITY_CHECK_SNITCH: https://nosnch.in/<sanity-check-snitch>

1. Generate a tarsnap master key and a subkey with only read and write
   permissions, and add it to the variables file:

        TARSNAP_KEY: |
          # START OF TARSNAP KEY FILE
          [...]
          # END OF TARSNAP KEY FILE

### Perform the deployment

Run these commands:

    mkvirtualenv ansible
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ansible-galaxy install -r requirements.yml -f
    ansible-playbook deploy-all.yml -u ubuntu -l load-balancer

## How to deploy an ElasticSearch server

### Create an OpenStack instance

1. Create an OpenStack "vps-ssd-2" instance from a vanilla Ubuntu 16.04 (xenial)
   image.

1. Add the IP address and host name of the new instance to the Ansible inventory
   in the file `hosts` (create it if necessary):

        [elastic-search]
        elasticsearch.host.name ansible_host=xx.xx.xx.xx

### Generate secrets for the new server

1. Go to https://deadmanssnitch.com/ and create one snitch for the sanity checks.
   Add it to a file `host_vars/<hostname>/vars.yml`:

        SANITY_CHECK_SNITCH: https://nosnch.in/<sanity-check-snitch>

### Perform the deployment

Run these commands:

    mkvirtualenv ansible
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ansible-galaxy install -r requirements.yml -f
    ansible-playbook deploy-all.yml -u ubuntu -l elasticsearch

## Tarsnapper pruner server

Deploys a high-security server, has full access to most our tarsnapper backups.
This server is used only to delete old backups.

### How to deploy

`ansible-playbook deploy/deploy-all.yml -u ubuntu --extra-vars @private-extra-vars.yml -i hosts --private-key /path/to/backup_pruner.key`

### How to add new backup to be pruned

1. Get master key
1. Save master key to private.yml
1. Save cache directory and file for tarsnap key in the private yaml
1. Add new entry to `TARSNAPPER_JOBS`

### How to prune backups for individual servers

1. Login to the instance
1. Pruning scripts are named `tarsnap-{{ job.name }}.sh`
1. Following operations are supported:
   a. List archives `sudo tarsnap-{{ job.name }}.sh list`
   b. Expire archives `sudo tarsnap-{{ job.name }}.sh. expire`
   c. Expire archives (dry run) `tarsnap-{{ job.name }}.sh expire --dry-run`

## Deploy new MySQL database

This ansible repository deploys MySQL server on OpenStack provider.

### Create an OpenStack environment

1. Create a volume for data, as big as you need. It should be empty.
1. Create a security group for database servers. It should have following rules:
    1. Incoming traffic is allowed only for port 22.
    1. Outgoing traffic should be allowed.
    1. When you provision servers using the database allow them using their IP.
1. Create an instance using an appropriate image, such as Ubuntu 16.04. We suggest you use vanilla image from
   [ubuntu page](https://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/). This image might be small; MySQL
   data will be stored elsewhere.
1. Attach the data volume that you created earlier to the VM (go to `Volumes` -> data volume -> expand dropdown next to "Edit Volume" ->
   `Edit Attachments`).
1. Manual step: SSH into the database instance and format `/dev/vdb` using `ext4`.
   Run `fdisk /dev/vdb` to do this and then issue:
    1. `o` --- creates new DOS partition table
    1. `n p` --- creates primary partition, and then `1 <enter> <enter>` will create partition in slot 1 that will span the whole disk.
    1. `w` --- writes changes to the disk
    1. Create the file system: `mkfs.ext4 -j /dev/vdb1`
1. Go to info page and note the instance public key, ssh to the instance and check whether public key matches,
   save public key to your ssh config.

### Generate secrets

1. Create `private-extra-vars.yml`, you'll put all the generated variables there
1. Generate root password, put it in the `private.yaml` for your host, under `MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD`.
1. Create a key, but store it somewhere safe (for example keepassx database), this key shouldn't end on the mysql server.
1. Generate tarsnap read write key from the master key, see [tarsnap-keymngmt](http://www.tarsnap.com/man-tarsnap-keymgmt.1.html),
   save this key in `MYSQL_TARSNAP_KEY`. **Note**: this key won't be able to delete the backups.
1. Go to dead man's snitch at https://deadmanssnitch.com/. Save it under `TARSNAP_BACKUP_SNITCH` in the `private.yml`.

### Perform deployment

    ansible-galaxy install -r requirements.yml -f && ansible-playbook deploy-all.yml -u ubuntu --extra-vars @private-extra-vars.yml

### Post deployment checkups

1. Check that backups are saved to tarsnap
1. Check contents of these backups.

Commit message:

Update README.md with mysql data volume setup instructions for zfs

README.md, after:

# Ansible playbooks for various OpenCraft servers

This repository contains OpenCraft playbooks to deploy many different types of servers.

## How to deploy a Dalite NG server

### Create an OpenStack environment

1. Create a root volume that has 40GB size. It should be based on Ubuntu 14.04 image.
   We suggest you use vanilla image from [ubuntu page](https://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/).
   First you need to upload images to your project, to do this follow
   [documentation here](https://github.com/open-craft/doc/blob/master/howto-upload-images-to-openstack.md).
   When images are uploaded you'll need to: `Volumes` -> `Create Volume` -> `Volume Source` choose `Image` -> `Select image`.

1. Create `vps-ssd-3` instance from this volume: (`Boot Source` -> `Volume` -> `Your root volume`).

1. Create an additional blank volume for storing log and database dumps; we recommend 100GB. Attach it to the instance you created, and make a note of the device identifier it gets assigned (for example, `/dev/vdb` or `/dev/vdc`).

1. Make a note of the instance's SSH private key; either save it to your SSH config for that host's IP address, or save it in an id_rsa file with permissions set to 600.

1. SSH to the new instance using its private key; verify the public key fingerprint against the OpenStack log page before proceeding.

1. Create an Ansible `hosts` file containing (for example):

        [dalite]
        dalite.harvardx.harvard.edu ansible_host=xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx

   Please note that while host name is largely irrelevant, this host must be in dalite group.

### Obtain database credentials

1. Create a `private-extra-vars.yml` file and store it somewhere safe, all configuration should be stored in that file.
1. Obtain database credentials
1. Save host to `MYSQL_DALITE_HOST`
1. Save database to: `MYSQL_DALITE_DATABASE`
1. Save credentials to: `MYSQL_DALITE_PASSWORD`, `MYSQL_DALITE_USER`
1. Save the device ID of the blank volume you attached for log and database dumps to `DALITE_LOG_DOWNLOAD_VOLUME_DEVICE_ID`.

### Generate secrets

1. Generate tarsnap keys, these keys shouldn't end up on dalite-ng server, but instead store them somewhere safe.
    1. Generate key for swift container backup
    1. Generate key for dalite logrotate backup
1. Generate tarsnap read write keys from the master key, see [tarsnap-keymngmt](http://www.tarsnap.com/man-tarsnap-keymgmt.1.html),
1. Go to dead man's snitch at https://deadmanssnitch.com/. And generate three snitches, save them under:
    1. `DALITE_LOG_TARSNAP_SNITCH` --- this will monitor saving logs,
       this snich should have daily interval
    1. `SANITY_CHECK_SNITCH`  --- this will monitor sanity check,
       this snitch should have 15 minute interval
    1. `BACKUP_SWIFT_SNITCH`  --- this will monitor backup of swift container
       this snitch should have hourly interval
1. Generate various dailte secrets;
   1. `DALITE_SECRET_KEY` --- a random string
   1. `DALITE_LTI_CLIENT_SECRET` --- a random string
   1. `DALITE_PASSWORD_GENERATOR_NONCE` --- a random string
   1. `DALITE_LOG_DOWNLOAD_PASSWORD` --- a crypt compatible [encrypted password](http://linuxcommand.org/man_pages/mkpasswd1.html)
1. Obtain HTTPS certificate for dalite domain, and store it like that:

   ```yml

       DALITE_SSL_KEY: |
          -----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----
          data
          -----END PRIVATE KEY-----

       DALITE_SSL_CERT: |
          -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
           data
          -----END CERTIFICATE-----
          -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
           Parent certificate
          -----END CERTIFICATE-----

   ```

1. Obtain OpenStack credentials to a project where media uploads will be stored, these should go to `DALITE_ENV`,
   like this:

        DALITE_ENV:
          DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE: 'dalite.settings'
          OS_AUTH_URL: '...'
          OS_TENANT_ID: '...'
          OS_TENANT_NAME: '...'
          OS_USERNAME: '...'
          OS_PASSWORD: '...'
          OS_REGION_NAME: '...'

   and to: `BACKUP_SWIFT_RC` (yes you need to copy the same credentials in two ways, but ansible has no sensible
   "copy variables" facility:

    BACKUP_SWIFT_RC: |

      export OS_AUTH_URL='....'
      export OS_TENANT_ID='...'
      export OS_TENANT_NAME='...'
      export OS_USERNAME='...'
      export OS_PASSWORD='..'
      export OS_REGION_NAME='..'

### Perform deployment

If the device identifier your external log volume was assigned is not /dev/vdc (the default we look for), then you'll need to pass it into the command.

    ansible-galaxy install -r requirements.yml -f
    ansible-playbook deploy-all.yml -u ubuntu --extra-vars @private-extra-vars.yml --limit dalite

If you saved the instance's private SSH key to a separate file, rather than into your SSH configuration, you'll need to pass the `--private-key` argument to `ansible-playbook`, specifying the file where the private key can be found.

## How to deploy a load-balancing server

### Create an OpenStack instance

1. Create an OpenStack "vps-ssd-1" instance from a vanilla Ubuntu 16.04 (xenial)
   image.

1. Add the IP address and host name of the new instance to the Ansible inventory
   in the file `hosts` (create it if necessary):

        [load-balancer]
        load-balancer.host.name ansible_host=xx.xx.xx.xx

### Generate secrets for the new server

1. Go to https://deadmanssnitch.com/ and create two snitches, one for the
   backups and one for the sanity checks.  Add them to a file
   `host_vars/<hostname>/vars.yml`:

        TARSNAP_BACKUP_SNITCH: https://nosnch.in/<backup-snitch>
        SANITY_CHECK_SNITCH: https://nosnch.in/<sanity-check-snitch>

1. Generate a tarsnap master key and a subkey with only read and write
   permissions, and add it to the variables file:

        TARSNAP_KEY: |
          # START OF TARSNAP KEY FILE
          [...]
          # END OF TARSNAP KEY FILE

### Perform the deployment

Run these commands:

    mkvirtualenv ansible
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ansible-galaxy install -r requirements.yml -f
    ansible-playbook deploy-all.yml -u ubuntu -l load-balancer

## How to deploy an ElasticSearch server

### Create an OpenStack instance

1. Create an OpenStack "vps-ssd-2" instance from a vanilla Ubuntu 16.04 (xenial)
   image.

1. Add the IP address and host name of the new instance to the Ansible inventory
   in the file `hosts` (create it if necessary):

        [elastic-search]
        elasticsearch.host.name ansible_host=xx.xx.xx.xx

### Generate secrets for the new server

1. Go to https://deadmanssnitch.com/ and create one snitch for the sanity checks.
   Add it to a file `host_vars/<hostname>/vars.yml`:

        SANITY_CHECK_SNITCH: https://nosnch.in/<sanity-check-snitch>

### Perform the deployment

Run these commands:

    mkvirtualenv ansible
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ansible-galaxy install -r requirements.yml -f
    ansible-playbook deploy-all.yml -u ubuntu -l elasticsearch

## Tarsnapper pruner server

Deploys a high-security server, has full access to most our tarsnapper backups.
This server is used only to delete old backups.

### How to deploy

`ansible-playbook deploy/deploy-all.yml -u ubuntu --extra-vars @private-extra-vars.yml -i hosts --private-key /path/to/backup_pruner.key`

### How to add new backup to be pruned

1. Get master key
1. Save master key to private.yml
1. Save cache directory and file for tarsnap key in the private yaml
1. Add new entry to `TARSNAPPER_JOBS`

### How to prune backups for individual servers

1. Login to the instance
1. Pruning scripts are named `tarsnap-{{ job.name }}.sh`
1. Following operations are supported:
   a. List archives `sudo tarsnap-{{ job.name }}.sh list`
   b. Expire archives `sudo tarsnap-{{ job.name }}.sh. expire`
   c. Expire archives (dry run) `tarsnap-{{ job.name }}.sh expire --dry-run`

## Deploy new MySQL database

This ansible repository deploys MySQL server on OpenStack provider.

### Create an OpenStack environment

1. Create a volume for data, as big as you need. It should be empty.
1. Create a security group for database servers. It should have following rules:
    1. Incoming traffic is allowed only for port 22.
    1. Outgoing traffic should be allowed.
    1. When you provision servers using the database allow them using their IP.
1. Create an instance using an appropriate image, such as Ubuntu 16.04. We suggest you use vanilla image from
   [ubuntu page](https://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/). This image might be small; MySQL
   data will be stored elsewhere.
1. Attach the data volume that you created earlier to the VM (go to `Volumes` -> data volume -> expand dropdown next to "Edit Volume" ->
   `Edit Attachments`).
1. Manual step: SSH into the database instance and format `/dev/vdb` using `zfs`.
    1. Create the zfs pool: `zpool create -m /var/lib/mysql mysql /dev/vdb`
1. Go to info page and note the instance public key, ssh to the instance and check whether public key matches,
   save public key to your ssh config.

### Generate secrets

1. Create `private-extra-vars.yml`, you'll put all the generated variables there
1. Generate root password, put it in the `private.yaml` for your host, under `mysql_root_password`.
1. Create a key, but store it somewhere safe (for example keepassx database), this key shouldn't end on the mysql server.
1. Generate tarsnap read write key from the master key, see [tarsnap-keymngmt](http://www.tarsnap.com/man-tarsnap-keymgmt.1.html),
   save this key in `MYSQL_TARSNAP_KEY`. **Note**: this key won't be able to delete the backups.
1. Go to dead man's snitch at https://deadmanssnitch.com/. Save it under `TARSNAP_BACKUP_SNITCH` in the `private.yml`.

### Perform deployment

    ansible-galaxy install -r requirements.yml -f && ansible-playbook deploy-all.yml -u ubuntu --extra-vars @private-extra-vars.yml

### Post deployment checkups

1. Check that backups are saved to tarsnap
1. Check contents of these backups.
