playbooks/roles/tarsnap/README.md, before:

# Tarsnap

- An ansible role for operating tarsnap backups

The role downloads sources for, verifies the gpg-encrypted sha signature, compiles, and installs [Tarsnap].  
**Batteries included**: [tarsnapper], cron job, shell wrapper, and [logrotate] policy.

## Requirements

- [Tarsnap] account
- [Tarsnap] machine key file
  - **important** this role assumes you are responsible for copying this key to `tarsnap_keyfile`. See [role variables](#Variables).

## Variables

Available variables are listed below, along with default values (see `defaults/main.yml`):

    tarsnap_version: 1.0.35
    tarsnap_keyfile: "/root/tarsnap.key"
    tarsnap_cache: "/usr/local/tarsnap-cache"

The role-installed `.tarsnaprc` file will automatically exclude the `tarsnap_cache` folder and reference the `tarsnap_keyfile` for backups.  Your play or an out-of-band process is responsible for creating the keyfile and placing it at this location.  See the [standalone](#standalone) section.

    tarsnap_cron_minute: "0"
    tarsnap_cron_hour: "3"
    tarsnap_cron_day: "*"
    tarsnap_cron_month: "*"

Controls the period at which the backup job wrapper `/root/tarsnap.sh` is executed.  
The period should be at least as frequent as the smallest generation defined by your `tarsnapper.conf` deltas (e.g. if your smallest delta is 1h, you should set all these vars to `*` except for `tarsnap_cron_minute`).  
These variable map to parameters in the [ansible cron module].

    tarsnap_tarsnapper_conf: "tarsnapper.default.conf"

[tarsnapper] configuration. A default and example are provided ([tarsnapper.default.conf]) but you should over-ride this.

    tarsnap_global_exclusions: # not defined by default

List of string glob patterns that will be added to the `.tarsnaprc` file.  For an example list, see `personal/defaults.yml`

## License

Source Copyright © 2014 Paul Bauer. Distributed under the GNU General Public License v3, the same as Ansible uses. See the file COPYING.

[Ansible]:http://www.ansible.com/home
[ansible-pull]:http://linux.die.net/man/1/ansible-pull
[ansible cron module]:http://docs.ansible.com/cron_module.html
[logrotate]:http://linuxcommand.org/man_pages/logrotate8.html
[Tarsnap]:https://www.tarsnap.com/
[sovereign]:https://github.com/al3x/sovereign
[tarsnapper]:https://github.com/miracle2k/tarsnapper
[tarsnapper.default.conf]:https://github.com/pmbauer/ansible-tarsnap/tree/master/files/tarsnapper.default.conf

Commit message:

refactor: Merge tarsnap and backup-to-tarsnap into a single role.
This commit does the following:
* Merge tarsnap and backup-to-tarsnap role into a single role tarsnap.
* Updates Readme of tarsnap to reflect the change.
* Removes tarsnapper and its related task from tarsnap role.

playbooks/roles/tarsnap/README.md, after:

# Tarsnap

- An ansible role for operating tarsnap backups

The role downloads sources for, verifies the gpg-encrypted sha signature, compiles, and installs [Tarsnap].
**Batteries included**: cron job, shell wrapper, and [logrotate] policy.

## Requirements

- [Tarsnap] account
- [Tarsnap] machine key file
  - **important** this role assumes you are responsible for copying this key to `tarsnap_keyfile`.

## Variables

Some of the available variables along with default values are listed below:

    tarsnap_version: 1.0.35
    tarsnap_keyfile: "/root/tarsnap.key"
    tarsnap_cache: "/usr/local/tarsnap-cache"

For a complete list, see `defaults/main.yml`.

## Configure Tarsnap

The `tarsnap` role performs some additional steps to configure Tarsnap:

* Creates tarsnap cache directory
* Uploads tarsnap key

## License

Source Copyright © 2014 Paul Bauer. Distributed under the GNU General Public License v3, the same as Ansible uses. See the file COPYING.

[logrotate]:http://linuxcommand.org/man_pages/logrotate8.html
[Tarsnap]:https://www.tarsnap.com/
