playbooks/roles/elasticsearch/README.md, before:

# Ansible Role: Elasticsearch

An Ansible Role that installs Elasticsearch on Debian/Ubuntu.

## Role Variables

Available variables are listed below, along with default values (see `defaults/main.yml`):

    elasticsearch_network_host: localhost

Network host to listen for incoming connections on. By default we only listen on the localhost interface. Change this to the IP address to listen on a specific interface, or `0.0.0.0` to listen on all interfaces.

    elasticsearch_http_port: 9200

The port to listen for HTTP connections on.

    elasticsearch_script_inline: true
    elasticsearch_script_indexed: true

Whether to allow inline scripting against ElasticSearch. You should read the following link as there are possible security implications for enabling these options: [Enable Dynamic Scripting](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/modules-scripting.html#enable-dynamic-scripting). Available options include: `true`, `false`, and `sandbox`.

## Example Playbook

    - hosts: search
      roles:
        - elasticsearch

## License

MIT / BSD

## Author Information

This role was created in 2014 by [Jeff Geerling](http://www.jeffgeerling.com/), author of [Ansible for DevOps](https://www.ansiblefordevops.com/).

It has been modified and adapted by and for OpenCraft.

Commit message:

Enable kibana alert system.
enable xpack security, set elasticsearch password, add elasticsearch password to kibana

kibana encryption key

added elastic search ca pem file variable

Update SSL configuration

Fix issues with certificates, file permissions, and usernames

Add username and set elasticsearch hostname in kibana config

role for catch kibana error log in journald and send email alert

update readme for kibana-email-alert role

add .j2 suffix

fix permission issue & print on newline

more specific regex & numeric mode

Remove now redundant basic auth from kibana

Add logstash elasticsearch authentication configuration

skip ssl verification

stop escaping backslash

Add notes on manual steps to be taken for ELK to work

Updated readme files with proper links

Update logstash elasticsearch host to use SSL

playbooks/roles/elasticsearch/README.md, after:

# Ansible Role: Elasticsearch

An Ansible Role that installs Elasticsearch on Debian/Ubuntu.

## Important
If Elasticsearch is already installed in a server then ``Set bootstrap password`` will do nothing. But this is required to set up passwords for other build-in users like ``kibana_system``.

Therefore you need to create a new superuser in elasticsearch. Run the following command to add a new superuser -
```
/usr/share/elasticsearch/bin/elasticsearch-users useradd <USERNAME> -p <PASSWORD> -r superuserr
```

Then to change the password for ``kibana_system`` user following curl request -
```
curl -k -v https://127.0.0.1:9200/_security/user/kibana_system/_password -X POST -d '{"password": "<kibana_elasticsearch_password>"}' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -u <SUPER-USER>:<SUPER-USER-PASSWORD>
```
You will find ``kibana_elasticsearch_password`` in the ansible secrets repository.

Replace ``<SUPER-USER>`` and ``<SUPER-USER-PASSWORD>`` with newly created super user's ``username`` and ``password`` accordingly.

## Role Variables

Available variables are listed below, along with default values (see `defaults/main.yml`):

    elasticsearch_network_host: localhost

Network host to listen for incoming connections on. By default we only listen on the localhost interface. Change this to the IP address to listen on a specific interface, or `0.0.0.0` to listen on all interfaces.

    elasticsearch_http_port: 9200

The port to listen for HTTP connections on.

    elasticsearch_script_inline: true
    elasticsearch_script_indexed: true

Whether to allow inline scripting against ElasticSearch. You should read the following link as there are possible security implications for enabling these options: [Enable Dynamic Scripting](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/modules-scripting.html#enable-dynamic-scripting). Available options include: `true`, `false`, and `sandbox`.

## Example Playbook

    - hosts: search
      roles:
        - elasticsearch

## License

MIT / BSD

## Author Information

This role was created in 2014 by [Jeff Geerling](http://www.jeffgeerling.com/), author of [Ansible for DevOps](https://www.ansiblefordevops.com/).

It has been modified and adapted by and for OpenCraft.
