playbooks/roles/sprints/README.md, before:

Ansible role for deploying Sprints
============================================================

This role deploys [the application for sprint management][1].

It sets up standard server, installs Docker and docker-compose with `docker-compose` role
and deploys the application with docker-compose.

## Setup
The `.env` file, used by docker-compose is generated from `CUSTOM_ENV_TOKENS`.
Please set variables with `set-me-please` (and others, according to your needs) before performing the deployment.
The environment variables are described [here][2].

## TODO
- The way of obtaining Let's encrypt certificate by `common-server` role is handled in a hacky way here.
  We're stopping the Docker containers that are occupying port 80 and 443 to retrieve the certificate.
  It might be good to set up server-side proxy pointing to the locally-used Docker ports.
  We should also remember here that Let's Encrypt is set up in Docker with Traefik at the moment.
- Set up `traefik-exporter` or find another way of exporting service metrics. 

[1]: https://github.com/open-craft/sprints
[2]: https://github.com/open-craft/sprints/blob/master/config/settings/base.py

Commit message:

Update Sprints README
This:
1. Adds a short guide to deploying Sprints on smaller instances. This was not added to playbooks, because the approach might differ depending on the selected hosting provider (some providers offer 20GB as the lowest possible storage size, so it would not be a problem there) and a chosen instance flavor (which can be changed in case of a required redeployment).
2. Removes TODO items that have been fixed in #133.

playbooks/roles/sprints/README.md, after:

Ansible role for deploying Sprints
============================================================

This role deploys [the application for sprint management][1].

It sets up standard server, installs Docker and docker-compose with `docker-compose` role
and deploys the application with docker-compose.

## Setup
The `.env` file, used by docker-compose is generated from `CUSTOM_ENV_TOKENS`.
Please set variables with `set-me-please` (and others, according to your needs) before performing the deployment.
The environment variables are described [here][2].

### Disk space usage
If you are planning to deploy this on an instance with its root partition size of total 10GB (or less),
you should consider moving the Docker data to an external volume, because overlay2 takes a significant amount of space
in such case. To do this on an existing instance, use the following approach:
1. Create new volume (e.g. with 40GB).
1. Add new volume to `/etc/fstab` and mount it.
1. Copy Docker data to the new volume (we are using `/mnt/volume` in this example):
   ```bash
   systemctl stop docker.service
   
   echo -e '{\n    "graph": "/mnt/volume/docker\n}' > /etc/docker/daemon.json
   
   rsync -a --sparse --progress /var/lib/docker /mnt/volume/
   mv /var/lib/docker /var/lib/docker_old  # Backup (just in case).
   
   systemctl start docker.service  # Ensure that everything works correctly now.
   
   rm -r /var/lib/docker  # Remove backup.
   ```

[1]: https://github.com/open-craft/sprints
[2]: https://github.com/open-craft/sprints/blob/master/config/settings/base.py
